so
every year like clockwork a new iphone
comes out
that's a little better a little faster a
little stronger than the last one
and as we know apple is the master of
messaging so they give an incredible
onstage presentation with
unreal video production they paint the
simplest prettiest picture
of how this is the greatest iphone
they've ever made the most powerful
fastest iphone we've ever made but they
also do something else
very important standard practice but
they give the phone
to reviewers and they don't have to do
this but they do
and everyone involved will have
essentially some date
that they are first allowed to talk
about their experience with this new
phone now i've been a reviewer for years
we're professionals our job is to take
that week
and do all of our testing and take all
of our findings and
find all the things we like and all the
things we don't like and all the new
features and test all of the new claims
and distill them all down into one piece
and that is a review and if you time it
all right you can publish that review
right when the contract we signed says
we're allowed to you might have heard of
this
it's called an embargo so that's what
you're seeing when you see all this
first wave of reviews and impressions
videos
about a product drop at the same time
the thing is every single one of these
reviews is fundamentally a balancing act
because there's limited time there is no
possible way to meaningfully test
every single new thing about every
incredible new phone that comes out
and even if you do how much time does
that leave for writing down
all these tests and then analyzing the
results of these tests
and that doesn't even leave time for the
production of shooting the video of
editing the video the color correction
the music all the creative choices you
want to make there's just too much
being a video reviewer on youtube today
is like nine different jobs in one so
how do you decide what gets included
in that review and how much has to hit
the cutting room floor so every review
has its own style
some reviews you'll see are 5 minutes
long super dense
some might be 10 minutes long even my
own videos reviews over the years have
gotten somewhere in the 15 to 20 minute
range
but that's in an effort to give you as
much information as possible
in as short as time as possible i'm not
trying to waste anybody's time
and don't forget on youtube we also have
audience metrics and retention to think
about
it's a balancing act so a review is
basically
the art of compressing and distilling
as much useful information as possible
into one piece but because it's an art
everyone's going to cut different things
from different places
and make different pieces but not this
video
in this video there is no time limit
this is everything you could possibly
want to know about my last
five months with the iphone 12 pro
and what i really think
[Music]
all right so now that the limits are off
i'm definitely going to be getting into
the weeds a pretty good amount
and multiple pieces of this video you
know when it's happening but i still
think it'll be pretty fun
when we do it now if you're the madman
or mad woman who's just going to watch
this whole video straight through to the
end
well you can see how long this video is
it's a good one
buckle up grab a snack but if your
attention span isn't quite that long
well you can see there are chapters
below for all these different topics so
if you want to get into the weeds
on a certain topic you're curious about
you can do that too
feel free to click around also this
video is mainly based
on the iphone 12 pro that i've spent
most of my last five months with
but anytime i reference other pieces of
the iphone lineup the 12 mini
or the 12 or the 12 pro max i'll mention
that too
let's get into it
[Music]
so the iphone 12 series has a refreshed
design this year which is always a big
deal
in the phone world and the iphone design
just doesn't change as much
as it used to and i think that's pretty
important design is really what most
people look forward to and what seems to
identify
the iphone forever i mean think about it
most of the time when you see new iphone
leaks
or headlines or rumors it's mostly
design stuff right you're looking at
new case designs or new dimensions or
what is the camera bump on the back of
this year's rectangle going to look like
mostly because
we already know the next year's iphone
is going to be pretty similar to this
year's iphone
but we just want to know what it's going
to look like the look and feel
in the hand is always the last most
exciting unknown
i happen to love the new modern super
flat design
of the iphone 12 series it's still a
rectangle with rounded corners in a few
different colors
but the sides are flat straight up
90 degrees stand up on the edges flat so
the flatness has become this identifying
characteristic of the phone just like it
was for the iphone 4
4s 5 and 5s but it's actually even
flatter than most other flat phones
because instead of 2.5 d
glass that's flat for most of the
surface and then curves over at the very
edges
this is just straight flat glass on the
front and the back
and the flat stainless steel band around
the edges so this has a couple of
effects
first it gave apple slightly more
internal volume in the same shape
second it made the edges a bit sharper
so i happen to like the flatter edges
just because i feel like it gives me
something to hold when i'm picking up
the phone
gripping it some people though dislike
it for the same reason because it can
feel a little sharp
like it's sort of bumping into the
corners of your hand i haven't felt that
with this phone the thing i
like and dislike the most about this
design though is the finishes
so all the new iphone 12 pros have this
sort of matte finish on the back which
is nice it's actually a satin that
doesn't show many fingerprints in any
light which is awesome
it doesn't change much as it wears over
time but then you've got
a glassy finish on the apple logo the
camera bump
and the stainless steel band around the
outside so the logo
that's fine i get it but we know they
could have made the camera bump
matte because that's what they did on
the regular iphone 12 yet they went with
a glossy finish just on this piece
and then combined with the raised sharp
camera rings
this has the tendency to collect a lot
of dust every iphone 12 pro you see
that's been outside of a case
for more than a few minutes or put into
a pocket is going to have dust around
the camera modules
this doesn't actually change the
performance of the camera so it's
actually not a big deal but the dust is
pretty much always going to be there
because of the rings
the most annoying part of the finish on
these phones for me though is the
fingerprints
on the stainless steel rails they are
constant
so much so that it's not even worth
cleaning in the moment when you notice
there's fingerprints on it
like they've nailed everything else
about this rail the power button is
slightly bigger and still very clicky
love that the mute switch is a staple
that still works exactly as you'd expect
it to i'll talk more about the rest of
the button behavior later but
basically my ideal iphone 12 would
actually be a hybrid
between the matte back of the pro and
the matte
camera bump and aluminum rails of the
regular 12. but guess what
most people put their phone in case
and so none of that stuff about the
finishes
about the grippiness about the corners
will really actually matter to you that
much if you cover up all of this
engineering
in a plastic shell of your choice the
size of the iphone
has always been pretty reasonable
although it's slowly crept up in size
over the years
and this is my favorite size iphone ever
because it feels just about as big as it
can get
before i start to have to do hand
gymnastics to reach
the notification shade and the stuff in
the top corner of the screen for
whatever reason apple just refuses to
adjust the software on the gigantic
iphone 12 pro max to really take
advantage of that bigger screen
in a meaningful way so i found the
trade-off in cameras and battery for how
annoying it is
to use just isn't worth it so the iphone
12 pro is a great size
the iphone 12 is an identical size and
the 12 mini
if you can deal with the battery
shortcomings is the best compact
flagship phone out there right now i'll
link my entire video about that
below a couple other things about the
design though this is
a thousand dollar phone let's not forget
that it's a thousand dollars
and so there's a lot of these premium
design industrial design
features and this would be the perfect
video to shout out
a lot of those things that we typically
skip and take for granted so the whole
body is sealed and ip68 certified
i'm not the type to put it under water
and test that but it is able to
withstand dust and dirt
and is resistant to liquid submersion up
to a max depth of
six meters underwater for up to 30
minutes so it's always nice to see
premium phones that would survive a
quick drop in the pool
or a toilet or something like that and
actually i also used to do a lot more
tests if you go back far enough in
videos where i would literally
try to bend the phone and see if you
could hear any flexing or creaking or
anything like that
phones these days just don't do that
anymore and this is no exception so
overall just in terms of raw
industrial design the iphone is exactly
what we'd expected it's great
it works great it looks great and it
still has the widest
most vibrant ecosystem of accessories
the worst part about it is technically
that lightning port in a world of usb
type-c but to most iphone users that's
just a default and we already know
apple's trying to get rid of that
anyway i'll link a video below the like
button or right up here in the corner
to an entire video i made just about
that topic the best part though
i still think is actually the most
underrated the haptics so i'm putting
this in the design
section because this is a consideration
from the very beginning when apple's
laying out the internals of the iphone
there is a massive space set aside
inside for a very large taptic engine as
apple calls it
and it's really good so instead of the
previously typical
rotational vibration motor that taptic
engine is a
linear oscillating vibrator and it can
deliver incredibly precise
convincing vibrations that literally
feel like taps
almost like you're pressing a real
button or your phone is tapping you in
your pocket
and it's better than any other phone's
haptics i've felt right now this one in
the iphone 12 pro isn't necessarily
better than last year but it's just
one of those things that we skip because
we take it for granted but
it's really good apple's gotten so good
at haptics that they're comfortable
replacing
typical buttons like a track pad on a
macbook
with just a flat piece of glass and a
taptic engine underneath it's just
it's that good also do i think that this
triple camera array looks kind of like a
stovetop
yes do i think apple knew that when they
were making this phone
yes but do i think they just went ahead
with it anyway because the memes are
inevitable and
it's kind of also extra press yes
so go ahead put a case on it
[Music]
ah the screen of the iphone always an
area of great debate
just because how much do people actually
care about the display this has always
been one of the most controversial areas
of the iphone
you remember the iphone 10r this is a
phone that launched at
749 dollars and had a notably
low resolution slightly above 720p
lcd screen right and part of the
internet went nuts at this like how
could apple of all companies
be shipping such a garbage screen on
paper in a 750
phone when pretty much every other
android phone at that price even some
cheaper ones
were 1080p at least and even i was one
of them just holding that phone
watching a video on youtube that i knew
was 4k
max out at 720p just felt borderline
unacceptable but it turned out
it was fine it was fine people bought
the phone they enjoyed it
there were blind tests it passed so it
felt like all those
articles and headlines about this screen
were for nothing because apple knew
that people didn't really care about
this sort of thing
as much as we thought they should but
this is the same apple that turns around
and ships the iphone 12 pro
with an incredible screen on paper with
dolby vision a slightly higher
1200 nit max brightness and a
world-class color accuracy
that i guarantee those same people don't
notice so the question
might not be how good this iphone 12 pro
screen
is as much as it's how much do people
really care about its most controversial
traits
and to me that's a more fun angle so on
paper the iphone 12 pro rocks a flat
6.1 inch diagonal display like i said
it's not too huge
it's a 2532 by 1170 resolution which
puts you at an
awesome 460 pixels per inch it's an oled
display that maxes out at 1200 nits max
brightness
which gives it hdr certification and a 2
million to 1 contrast ratio
it supports the wide p3 color gamut true
tone automatic white balance adjustments
and it's coated in a fingerprint
resistant oleophobic coating so
here's where it gets interesting there's
a huge notch at the top
so this gigantic cutout stolen from the
top of the screen by
the biggest notch in any new phone out
right now
do you care like functionally we all
know why the notch is there it's for
face id
which hasn't really improved over the
years as much as i was hoping
but it uses an infrared dot projector a
receiver
and there's an ambient light sensor
along with a seven megapixel selfie
camera
and an earpiece speaker and a mic it
feels like this huge notch has sort of
faded into our peripheral vision like
other phones added notches around the
same time as the iphone 10
and then over the years they've all
shrunk in their notches doing everything
they can to minimize the interruption
to a smaller notch than to an even
smaller notch and then to a hole punch
and then even to developing tech to put
the selfie camera behind the display
itself
so the iphone's notch is still
exactly the same it's massive this is
one of those things that
personally i hate it every time i'm
looking at it
but i've gotten used to it and apple's
done the calculus clearly that
most people have gotten used to it and
don't mind it
and it's just part of the way the iphone
is and rumors point to it getting
slightly smaller
next year but it's not going away
anytime soon even if we do get touch id
behind the glass in the next iphone
we're going to continue to have face id
so my take is
fine i get it but i would really like
face id to start working
better specifically at more angles so
like when my phone is
in front of me on a table or on a desk i
wish you could recognize me from that
angle and unlock without me moving it or
leaning over it because other phones
with the fingerprint reader on the front
let me do that alright so then there is
the refresh rate
it's 60 hertz this is as far as i know
the
most expensive new phone that
doesn't have a high refresh rate display
yet
do you care so my take and you might
have seen this coming is
i love me some 120 hertz absolutely it's
the best thing about
a lot of the newest phones coming out
makes everything feel smoother and more
responsive
and once you go 120 hertz it is really
hard to go
back to 60. except for the iphone
the iphone is the smoothest 60 hertz
phone
so i can kind of feel like the best of
the worst or the worst of the best
depending on how you look at it so a lot
of this has to do with the overall
performance of the phone which is great
but i'll get into that later
but most of this has to do with the 120
hertz touch sample rate meaning the
layer beneath the display that
tracks the touch input from your finger
and tells the display to respond
is refreshing twice as many times per
second as a normal 60hz display
so it feels very responsive and really
tight to the way your finger moves on
the screen
and this is what iphone users are used
to so that being said
the iphone can still benefit massively
from 120hz display and i know this
because the ipad pro has had 120hz
display
since 2017 and it's incredible so
i'm bummed that the iphone 12 pro
doesn't have a higher frustrated screen
and i would be even more bummed if next
year it also doesn't but something to
note is that ipad pro is an lcd display
and one of the main reasons cited by
iphone defenders for why this phone
doesn't have 120hz display
is because they wanted to go oled too
and apple couldn't find a supplier that
could make as many high quality
120 hertz oleds as they'd need to
satisfy their
high quality control requirements and
millions and millions of units for the
iphone
so maybe next year i'm really hoping
but you know what else they made some
pretty big claims about for this iphone
screen
this new thing called ceramic shield so
the front of this new iphone has a layer
on top
apple's calling ceramic shield which
isn't ceramic but it is kinda shield
it's actually still glass but with a
sort of crystallized reinforcement
and apple's big on stage claim for this
was four
times better drop performance so like i
said in my original review
video i'm not the one who's gonna go out
and drop the phone over and over to try
to see if it somehow hits that 4x number
but what we did find out is it still
scratches out of level six
with deeper grooves at a level seven and
it will still shatter
when dropped it's not some magical next
level solution glass is glass
and you know the rest thanks zack but if
there is any observable improvement in
drop performance of the iphone 12 it's
most likely result of the new flat
design
since these phones are so flat the rails
are much more likely to take some of
that impact damage
when you drop it unless the phone lands
completely flat on the face which is
unlikely
so with that stainless steel rail it's
gonna absorb a lot of the impact or it
could just be whatever
screen protector or case you have on
your phone not the magic of some ceramic
shield
so while i do appreciate the effort to
trying to make
better more resilient glass on the front
of the iphone
it's not magic oh and speaking of screen
protectors this is officially
unofficially but officially the easiest
new phone
to apply a screen protector to because
of how perfectly flat it is
in case you're into that fun fact so the
iphone's display
incredible on paper great color accuracy
flat plenty bright and sharp but also
still has a huge notch at the top
still stuck at 60 hertz and still
scratches as easily as ever
it's glass par for the court
there is a lot that goes into the
testing of
a set of new smartphone cameras and it
usually ends up being the longest
section of the review just because so
many phones have gotten so good
that it feels like the camera is one of
the last things that really
differentiates them but here we are with
the iphone 12 pro
and its triple camera system so these
are all top of the line cameras
but you probably already knew that and
honestly i could probably have just
ended it there like you know you're
getting good
consistent point and shoot photos high
quality videos
and a good mic you're set but that's not
what you came here for
is it so there's a lot more to say about
these cameras so first of all the
iphone's cameras
haven't really changed all that much
since they started getting really good
a few years ago if it ain't broke they
definitely
don't fix it here which is funny because
the headphone jacks also weren't broken
but i guess they didn't feel the same
way about that
but the point is there's not going to be
some huge year-over-year difference with
the iphone cameras because
they don't have much to change the
sensor size is going to stay about the
same it's a 12 megapixel optically
stabilized sensor
this one has an f 1.6 aperture letting
in plenty of light and it's flanked by
a 120 degree 12 megapixel ultra wide at
f 2.4
and a 2.5 x optical telephoto at
f 2.0 a lidar scanner a mic
and a flash to finish off that stovetop
the thing about the iphone camera though
that we sometimes forget when we get
super into the technical weeds
is it's designed to be as simple as
possible
as easy as possible to use while still
achieving results
that are very difficult to get any other
way so when steve jobs
unveiled the original iphone back in
2007 stay with me
this was one of the slides he showed on
stage it's a graph of
ease of use versus how smart something
is and of course he absolutely trashes
all the competition talking about how
they're not very smart
or they're not very easy to use and the
iphone is going to be way up in the
corner
just a classic extremely scientific
apple chart on stage so while the rest
of the competition is definitely caught
up on those axes
when you just look at the camera just
the camera
the iphone still squeezes further up
into that corner
than any other phone out there right now
this camera app is
dead simple and it has been forever
everyone knows how to point and shoot
tap to focus if you really need to and
if you need any extra controls they're
typically hidden away
maybe one swipe and a tap away and when
you point and shoot the software does a
lot of heavy lifting thanks to smart hdr
thanks to multiple exposures thanks to
computational photography
and thanks to a great image signal
processor that makes it all happen very
quickly
it would be really hard to get the
results that the iphone gets
from any other camera system with just
plain point and shoot
and that is what the iphone is so good
at so i give it all the credit in the
world for point and shoot
but what about the few times when you
actually do
want to get a little more custom what
about the times when you do want a
little bit more
manual control that is when
the apple way can sort of bite you
because
there isn't a whole lot of that in the
stock iphone
camera app there actually isn't a pro
mode in the iphone 12
pro's camera now fortunately they have
gone ahead and added
pro raw which can give you a lot more
flexibility in the editing process
and there are some apps in the app store
that can help the shooting process
for you but i guess what i'm trying to
say is
there's a lot of really good smartphone
cameras and i think if you were to do
some sort of
blind smartphone camera test with a
bunch of different phones
all in manual mode to dial in the exact
perfect photo
you might be surprised which one comes
out on top they'd all be really good
but where the iphone separates itself is
delivering consistent
great results with minimal effort so
every year i describe iphone photos in
the review
and every year it's pretty similar
they've got this crunchy processed
look but not too over sharpened or over
processed plenty of dynamic range and
detail for such a small file
and the iphone is notorious for
flattening out pictures with faces
making sure it always brightens up any
faces that might be in the shadows or
not exposed too well
it will always sacrifice the rest of the
image if it has to
in favor of the subject or the face
which most would argue is the smart
thing to do in full auto but when you
spend a thousand plus dollars on a
smartphone there's going to be a lot of
people who want to do more than just
point and shoot
and so that's where there's some edge
cases where the iphone camera
does get beat out by the competition
zoom is a big one the iphone 12 pro
maxes out at 12 times digital zoom
there's a few phones out right now with
10 times optical zoom lenses that max
out in the triple digits
for digital zoom so you know then
there's other winners with even wider
ultra wides
or winners with laser autofocus but
again
as far as point and shoot goes which is
what
most people want out of most of their
photos
most of the time the iphone nails that
now videos this is where to me the
iphone separates itself
as the best overall camera system in a
smartphone
because there's another layer to this
which is app support so you've probably
seen by now some of the memes about how
a video from an android phone will look
like a blurry pixelated mess on
instagram while the one from the iphone
looks great
and there's a hint of truth behind that
and there's a reason for that the truth
is
a video shot on a high-end android phone
and
the iphone 12 pro would be very similar
comparable either one could win but a
video
shot inside of the instagram app
on high-end android phone versus the
iphone 12 pro
will have a massive difference and
that's because for years
many of the most popular apps with
camera functions were simply screen
shotting the viewfinder in android
phones instead of actually plugging
directly into the camera feed
like they do with iphones there was an
android police article just the other
day about how the galaxy s21
is the only android phone that doesn't
suck at snapchat because they actually
plug straight into the camera feed on
this phone and that may seem like a step
forward for
android and maybe that's a new future
direction but fundamentally it still
comes down to
development if i am a new app making
something camera related and i can
develop
one version of my app for as many users
as possible
i'm going to make an iphone version
because that's one version of the app
for many millions of people and trying
to make a bunch of different optimized
new versions for a bunch of different
android phones will just be a process of
diminishing returns
so it's cool to see a version once in a
while for like the s21 ultra
or back when the pixel had the visual
core that would be cool once in a while
but
the iphone seems like it'll always have
this development advantage at least
for the near future which is actually
the main reason why i carry an iphone so
that being said if you want all the
in-depth info on the new cameras plus
the differences i found between the 12
pro
and the 12 pro max with the larger
sensor better stabilization
and improved zoom yes i did make a video
about all those things but
bottom line here is it isn't much of a
difference in most
shots until you get to the edge cases
which is where that stuff can produce
less noisy photos on the max also
you remember dolby vision but how there
is this huge deal made about the fact
that the iphone 12 series is the first
set
of dolby vision certified cameras and
suddenly it was about to become a huge
deal and everyone would start shooting
hdr
all the time well that hasn't really
played out yet
uh don't get me wrong the video files
look great
dolby vision hdr video from an iphone
looks
amazing on an iphone and if you send it
to other
iphones it'll look phenomenal on those
displays but the second you have to
export it and send it somewhere else
that's where the experience starts to
fall apart iphone's dolby vision video
is using
hlg which stands for hybrid log gamma
and without getting
super into the weeds on file formats and
nits
it's just not compatible everywhere so
if i shoot adobe vision hdr video
on my iphone and i want to share it
somewhere like twitter
instagram or even an apple tv where it's
not supported
well then the video gets converted and
mapped to an sdr image
fitting all of that hdr information back
into a standard dynamic range screen
and to me that sdr image doesn't look
great so dolby vision hdr video looks
super good when it works and i've seen
some awesome examples even on youtube
of iphone 12 pro hdr videos and if you
have the right monitor
or the right phone then these videos
look awesome but i'm still waiting for
the best most reliable hdr pipeline for
getting a video
shot here to hit your eyeballs
compatibly
beautifully every time but in summary
overall the iphone cameras
pretty good
24 7. i think it would be foolish to
overlook magsafe magsafe is one of the
most interesting new features
on the iphone 12 series not because of
anything amazing physically i mean it's
just a wireless charging puck
with some magnets in it that align with
the back of the iphone simple
but the extra layer on top is there's
rumors apple's eventually going to be
getting rid of the charging port as
early as this year so that means we
could be looking at the future
of charging on all iphones and then the
fun part is also brings the potential of
a whole
ecosystem of magnetic iphone accessories
enabled through magsafe so first of all
on the name
i get why they called it magsafe it's
beloved branding but
it doesn't quite serve the same utility
as the original magsafe so if you rely
on this magsafe puck to charge your
phone and you accidentally bump the wire
the phone is absolutely coming with it
it's hardly any more safe
than a normal wire but that being said
it works
slaps on the back just like that charges
at 15 watts
and that's fine uh there are a number of
pretty decent magsafe accessories kind
of like this
that are just cases that are compatible
with magsafe meaning
uh if you slap the charger on the back
it will also magnetize
and work through it this happens to be
one of nomad's leather cases for the
iphone 12
pro max here um but other than that
i was kind of hoping there would also be
a
separate ecosystem of just magnetic
accessories that slap onto the back of
the iphone so i got this car mount from
belkin which has a
somewhat tacky rubber on top of metal
that's supposed to hold the iphone in
place without any clamps
which would be super cool just with the
magsafe magnet inside and this to me was
going to open up this whole new
world of things sticking to the back of
the iphone with magnets
and it's barely good
sometimes it might depend on your car's
suspension at this point but for me
it slowly sinks down while i'm driving
until it eventually falls off the
magnets so it feels like this
magnetic charging puck is the best
magsafe accessory out
still five months later although there
is some stuff
in the pipeline by moment that i'm
hoping to get my hands on that looks
pretty cool they make some big claims
about also having a proprietary
magnet array that's a little stronger
i'll believe it when i see it
but long story short i'm calling it an
accessory now
but it may be a necessity in the very
near future because if the next iphone
truly doesn't have any ports
then you will have to wirelessly charge
your phone every single time
so i guess this magsafe puck would be
the best
way to do that the biggest bummer for me
would really just be the charging speed
so wireless charging is already pretty
inefficient but there's a lot of
innovation going on with companies
pushing
super fast wireless charging speeds 40
50 60 watt wireless charging apple
not doing that at all magsafe is 15
watts period actually it's 12 watts on
the iphone 12 mini
and even if you plug into a faster brick
it's going to limit that charge
to that 15 watts long term it is true
that this is better for your battery
health than if you want your phone
to last a number of years then that's
what you're getting here
but sometimes you just want to charge it
fast you know
i guess that's why they're calling it
magsafe because for your battery
it is safe
[Music]
the iphone 12 pro has a 3
687 milliamp hour battery on paper
that's actually pretty small we're very
used to flagship smartphones nowadays
having anywhere from four thousand to
five thousand milliamp hours sometimes
more
rarely less but thanks to the iphone's
efficiency
their vertical integration their
optimization all the classic stuff we've
talked about for years
that number doesn't really mean nearly
as much as
the actual day-to-day performance which
is great on the iphone 12 pro i can
consistently get
six to seven hours of screen on time
which is really good for a phone of this
size
on heavier days though with a lot more
navigation or just more taxing use
maybe i'm pulling a lot of data or
playing games or using the camera a lot
then it'll drop faster the a14 bionic
chip inside is very powerful so it can
move through battery quickly enough to
kill it in a day
with less than five hours of screen on
time but for me anyway
that's a pretty uncommon day so the only
thing you really start to think about
more and more after the phone comes out
is longer term battery health and to be
honest
five months later still is a pretty
short amount of time in the relative
grand scheme of things as far as
batteries go but you want this thing to
last three
four maybe even five plus years and
iphones have a good history here
and this iphone 12 pro that i've been
using still shows 100 battery health
and that's just kind of it for battery
apple's
kind of a bit boring in the battery
department i was just talking about in
the magsafe section but
apple has never led the industry
in charging speed they have never led
the industry
in battery size and there are android
phones left and right doing
split battery cells across foldable form
factors
even doing split battery cells to do
faster charging in parallel
there are phones doing 50 60 even 100 or
120 watts
which is absolutely unreal and can get
you from dead to full sometimes in half
an hour the iphone
has never done any of that it's just a
simple
modest sized cell that lasts a
reasonable amount of time
the iphone isn't just a piece of
hardware
it's the software that runs on it and
it's the ecosystem
that surrounds it now there isn't really
a whole lot of extra stuff to say about
ios on the iphone 12 pro specifically
that's new here
in fact that's actually one of the
things people like the most about it is
it is incredibly consistent they don't
change too much year over year
they never have and older iphones will
have literally the exact same software
experience as the new iphone as soon as
the new iphones come out so all i really
have to say about ios this time around
is the stuff that was supposed to be new
widgets so widgets finally came to ios
after having them on android for the
past
12 years or so so when apple comes late
to the party on something
usually there's some reason they're
gonna do it the apple way or they're
going to do it better even though they
weren't first
and now that i've had them for about
five months on the iphone 12 pro
they're actually kind of better and
worse at the same time so ios 14's
widgets
are really good i actually think their
implementation in ios
while it's a little less custom does
feel a little more
polished and controlled as you'd expect
from ios but when i first went over all
of ios 14's new features in that video
we saw a few widgets apple built in that
demonstrated huge potential
there's widgets smart stacks and some
really informative widgets to give you
live
updating information they were all
fairly clean and consistent
visually you still can't quite put it
exactly where you want on every home
screen but
this felt like the ios way and so now it
was up to all our favorite apps and
developers
to update their apps to make great
widgets like they did on android so
where they ended up worse
is there's actually not as many and
they're still not quite as customizable
as they are on android now maybe it's a
bit unfair to expect all my favorite
apps to have updated with widget support
like they've had a decade to do on
android but just in the apps i use
five months later there's a waze widget
on android but not on ios
there's a soundcloud widget on android
really useful playback controls
not on ios there's an asana widget on
android but not on ios
so there are less widgets and overall
less customization within the widgets
themselves
but overall the quality of the widgets
feels a bit better
so sounds about right for apple that
being said i was really curious how many
people
really use widgets and so i did a poll
on twitter asking you guys
you know how many of you guys use
widgets on your home screen how many
don't and it turns out about
75 percent of you do whether you're on
android
or on ios which i found very interesting
so then we've got the new app library
all the way to the right now this isn't
quite the app drawer that so many of us
love on android but it's getting there
and it's definitely useful for finding
everything
in one place and not needing to have
every single app on a home screen or in
some folders so the iphone's home screen
situation will continue developing over
time
and speaking of developing over time so
will
the ecosystem you can't talk about the
iphone without at least
touching on the ecosystem around it so
apple's ecosystem gets a little more
complete
surrounding the iphone every year just
this year they added the homepod mini
they added airpods max and the long
rumored air tags are probably coming
soon and in the
walled garden analogy that can either be
the inside of that garden getting
even more lush and beautiful or
it can be the walls of the garden
getting a little bit higher
either way i think they're kind of both
true the point is
it's making it harder to leave i really
don't have any fundamental problem with
the way ios works it's mature enough now
that at this point
any change they make is a small little
added feature or a little experiment
you know widgets were easily the biggest
new thing but they've pretty much locked
in
stuff like their swipe up gesture and
the timing and responsiveness of
animations
even if it is a little jarring coming
from a square edge instead of a rounded
edge
and they've locked up the camera ui
fundamentals for so long pretty much
everyone on earth knows how they work by
now i don't like
the power button for example how it
doesn't just turn off the phone it also
triggers
siri with a long press remember when
power buttons just turned phones on and
off but the most consistently
frustrating thing
in ios to me that i wish they would
evolve is
not notifications although that could
also use some work too
but settings just the fact that there
are so many settings
separated from the app and moved into
the settings app
it's just been annoying for a long time
but guess what the iphone
is still a ridiculously popular phone
for a reason
it doesn't change too much year over
year there's nothing too dramatic
happening versus the last one people
understand it
they're used to it both my parents use
an iphone at this point
and it would be really hard to recommend
they switch
to another phone even if that phone
is technically better the cost
of switching is high and that's on
purpose
[Music]
okay so the arrival of 5g on the iphone
finally
5g has been a topic we've hyped up and
talked about for a long time
and there were a lot of big promises
made when 5g finally arrived on the
iphone they opened their whole keynote
with verizon ceo on stage talking about
5g for a while so it had a lot of
promise to it
most notably 5g just got real well we
have the benefit of hindsight now were
they right did 5g
just get real by adding it to the 12
series
no i mean mostly no 5g rolling out to
the world
is an infrastructure thing it is going
to be a slow literal
building process for that to happen so
that won't suddenly happen
quickly because of any one individual
phone that being said
yes there are now many millions more
5g customers out in the world because of
this new iphone
but here's a more interesting question
do you even want
or need 5g in the first place
because here's the thing we've seen tons
of promises of this wild
awesome 5g enabled future with robo
taxis
and remote robot surgeries and insanely
fast internet speeds everywhere you go
but as you saw in my 5g explained video
we're not there yet i mean realistically
5g speeds are not actually
that much dramatically better than 4g
speeds
sometimes they're a little better
sometimes they're actually worse the
rare exception to that is when you're in
a stone's throw range of a millimeter
wave tower
in which case you might get incredible
speeds until you walk away i actually
demonstrated pretty clearly in my video
that if you're within
eyesight of that millimeter wave tower
you get fantastic speeds but as soon as
there's an obstacle between you and the
tower
or if you literally even go behind a
window or turn your back to the tower
then you're gonna lose some of that
signal so 5g is cool 5g has a lot of
promise for the future but it is not
going to
suddenly get real because of one phone
or any one technology
the one thing you can say about the
iphone which is why they're using these
terms
is there are now millions of people out
there who are walking around
with their first 5g phone some of these
people will live in an area with 5g
coverage and will benefit right away
some of these people will live in an
area that doesn't have it but that's
about to get 5g coverage
in the next few years and they'll see
that benefits soon
and some of these people will live in an
area with no 5g
and they won't benefit at all those
people can just turn 5g off and use the
iphone
just like their last one also one of the
fun facts is if you didn't upgrade to a
5g phone
the millions of people who just left the
4g network with their 5g
iphones may actually make your 4g speeds
a little bit better to apple's credit
they've managed to minimize 5g's effect
on battery life pretty well
some early 5g phones and this happened
with 4g 2
had worse battery life because of how
inefficient it is to constantly hunt for
a 5g signal and you might have even seen
that now deleted tweet of
verizon account asking people to turn
off 5g to improve their battery life but
i actually found that the iphone does a
really good job with power management
it's well known
now that it doesn't actually connect to
5g
all the time it really just switches it
on when you're downloading something or
using a lot of data
when you really need it if you're not it
might show you the 5g logo but it won't
actually be connected to 5g
and it'll save you some battery and
honestly you'll probably never notice so
the effect on battery life has been
minimal
and a step has been taken forward
towards getting the world's internet
users
onto 5g but it definitely didn't
suddenly get
real
[Music]
okay so you know how every year as soon
as a new iphone comes out there is a
rapid and dramatic search for
literally anything that could be
possibly wrong with this new phone
and if there is anything then that
becomes a headline and we're all just
trying to find
the latest the newest gate signal
strength drops when i hold the phone in
a vice grip
antenna gate some iphones have charging
problems
charge gate maybe the iphone can be bent
in half that's bend gate i did an entire
video called iphone gates explained
you can watch that but this year it's
been pretty quiet
right there's not that much
controversial stuff about this iphone
but i don't know it just doesn't feel
right i feel like there's always got to
be
something there's got to be something
for the youtube channels to feast on for
views there's got to be some sort of
gate
that we can talk about right what is the
gate oh
maybe maybe it's the display again right
there's always some sort of element of
controversy with the screen and this
screen is nice but it is a thousand
dollar phone with a comically big notch
and it's somehow still 60 hertz and
apple's getting away with it so surely
that's worth the gate maybe there's also
been some occasional
bubbling up of uh oled tint issues so
i've seen a couple
forums and youtube videos talk about
green tint on the iphone's display
hasn't really been enough of that
happening for apple to respond to it yet
but
it's kind of out there or oh actually
maybe it's just the fact that it still
uses lightning
actually no what's the iphone it uses
lightning every year i mean we knew
they were never going to go to usbc for
the iphone that's not really a gate
actually you know what
i think i know what it is i think the
bar
for a gate is something that gets a
response
from apple it's got it's got to crush
that threshold like
you have to find something that's so
major that apple's engineers didn't find
and their testers didn't find but it's
such a big admission
that apple has to go then respond to you
that
would be a gate and maybe the only thing
that qualifies for that
would be
so there is no charger in the box of the
iphone 12 series
and so this it was pretty significant of
course it didn't get a reaction from
apple but it was
so big that it needed a sort of
pre-reaction
which was an explanation by apple in
their keynote about why they were doing
it
so we saw them take the environmental
angle you know less charges in the box
means less e-waste when people would
throw them away less wasted space with
packaging
and more iphones shipped per truck per
train per plane per pallet
efficiency saving the world now when you
actually break this down
yes you are saving some e-waste by not
shipping charging bricks that people
could potentially throw away if they
don't need them
but on the other hand the cable that
ships with the iphone is a usbc to
lightning cable
and most people who own iphones don't
have a usbc charger so they have to buy
that usbc charging brick anyway which is
more packaging
and more money and now they're throwing
away their old bricks and it's
kind of not really making any difference
so as much as we all hate this
and we can kind of see through the
environmental angle
we can also sort of see how this is
already starting to become
normal so since this iphone shipped in a
small box with no charger
the xiaomi mi 11 has also shipped in a
small charger-less box but they'll
still give you a charger if you ask for
it and then the galaxy s21 series did
the same
but they're not trying to give you a
free charger at all when apple does
something
the rest of the industry takes notice
they're all watching
and they often react and so just like we
saw with the headphone jack where there
felt like there's about a one year
buffer time where you could make fun of
what apple was doing with the headphone
jack before you
delete all your ads making fun of them
and copied them in your next phone
i feel like the buffer time is even
shorter with this one but the difference
in the danger with this trend
is all the innovation we've been seeing
over the past few years
in battery tech and charging tech and
this like race to the fastest charging
phone
does that just end i really hope not so
that's what really makes this
a gate to me at least is it's not just
the
okay apple's not shipping a charger with
the phone anymore and oh look how greedy
this seems like they're being
but the ripple effect that this
inevitably has
on the rest of the industry and at the
end of the day i think that's what makes
the iphone
such a fascinating product to begin with
is it you know it started off by
changing the world in 2007
but every time they update it after that
it has these
second and third order effects on the
rest of the smartphone world around it
that's
what's so crazy about the iphone there
are companies that make
entire phones based on rumors of what
apple might do
in a future iphone just so they can beat
apple to the punch
that is wild
[Music]
all right that's i think that's it i
think that's everything that i've wanted
to say about the iphone that i haven't
in some way in some video somewhere i'm
glad we did this
this is uh if you made it straight
through to the end of this video
watch the whole thing well we've been
through a lot together so i appreciate
you
also you might notice it's a different
shirt this time that's what happens when
it's a long video it takes
more than one day to shoot but if you
skipped
directly to the end this conclusion here
well you missed the most exciting part
but either way yeah i'm super curious
what you guys think
to me it's it's not just about making a
longer video just to make a long video
it's about being able to cover all of a
topic
instead of just a narrow slice of it
like we normally are compelled to but
hey if you guys watch the video and you
enjoyed it we can do more of this type
of stuff so
let me know in the comment section below
also down below right below like button
are all the references and all the links
of all the stuff i talked about during
this video
as promised cool that's it
thanks for watching now a word from the
only sponsor brave enough to tack at the
end of
this gigantic video expressvpn shout out
to the sponsor of this video
expressvpn so quick question how did you
choose which internet provider that you
use
actually i'll probably just answer that
for you you likely didn't have a choice
or if you did
you're pretty lucky because in most
areas you don't have a choice and so
because these isps
essentially have a monopoly over the
areas that they serve if they start
doing things you disagree with or if
they start to track all the websites you
visit even when you're in incognito mode
what are you going to do switch you
can't so using expressvpn stops this by
rerouting your connection through a
secure
encrypted server so your isps can't see
a thing
and also rerouting your connection
through a different server
can actually be kind of fun for example
if i want to watch modern family
it's not on us netflix no problem i just
connect to a server that's in the uk
refresh and i can watch it and it's not
just modern family you can get thousands
of other shows
on netflix basically unlocked just by
switching your location
when you use expressvpn so if you don't
want your isp to have complete control
and knowledge over every website you
visit
and you want to unlock more shows it's
kind of a no-brainer you can grab
expressvpn
today and if you use my code or go to
expressvpn.com
mkbhd that'll get you three extra months
free
thanks again to expressvpn for
sponsoring this video